docs/links.md, before:

# Learn Azure - Links & Resources

---

* [`awesome-azure`](https://github.com/kristofferandreasen/awesome-azure) A Curated List of Azure Resources.
* [`awesome-azure-learning`](https://github.com/ddneves/awesome-azure-learning)  Azure learning references especially for Azure architecture.

[](.)

* [Azure Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure)

---

## Azure Active Directory

Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) is a multi-tenant, cloud-based identity and access management service.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-whatis)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/)

### Azure Active Directory B2C

Azure Active Directory B2C (Azure AD B2C) is an identity management service that enables custom control of how your customers sign up, sign in, and manage their profiles when using your iOS, Android, .NET, single-page (SPA), and other applications.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/)
* [NodeJS Example](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-b2c-javascript-nodejs-webapi)

---

## Azure App Services

Azure App Service enables you to build and host web apps, mobile back ends, and RESTful APIs in the programming language of your choice without managing infrastructure.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/)
* [CLI Samples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/samples-cli)
* [NodeJS Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/quickstart-nodejs?pivots=platform-windows)

---

## Azure Automation

Azure Automation delivers a cloud-based automation and configuration service that supports consistent management across your Azure and non-Azure environments. It comprises process automation, configuration management, update management, shared capabilities, and heterogeneous features. Automation gives you complete control during deployment, operations, and decommissioning of workloads and resources.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/automation/automation-intro)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/automation/)
* [Start/Stop VMs During Off-Hours](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/automation/automation-solution-vm-management)

---

## Azure Blob Storage

Azure Blob storage is Microsoft's object storage solution for the cloud. Blob storage is optimized for storing massive amounts of unstructured data. Unstructured data is data that doesn't adhere to a particular data model or definition, such as text or binary data.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/)
* [CLI Samples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-samples-blobs-cli)

### Azure Data Lake Storage

‎Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 is a set of capabilities dedicated to big data analytics, built on [Azure Blob storage](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-introduction).

Data Lake Storage Gen2 converges the capabilities of [Azure Data Lake Storage Gen1](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-lake-store/) with Azure Blob storage. For example, Data Lake Storage Gen2 provides file system semantics, file-level security, and scale. Because these capabilities are built on Blob storage, you'll also get low-cost, tiered storage, with high availability/disaster recovery capabilities.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/data-lake-storage-introduction)

---

## Azure CDN

Azure Content Delivery Network (CDN) is a global CDN solution for delivering high-bandwidth content. It can be hosted in Azure or any other location. With Azure CDN, you can cache static objects loaded from Azure Blob storage, a web application, or any publicly accessible web server, by using the closest point of presence (POP) server. Azure CDN can also accelerate dynamic content, which cannot be cached, by leveraging various network and routing optimizations.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cdn/cdn-overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cdn/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cdn/scripts/cli/cdn-azure-cli-create-endpoint)

---

## Azure Container Instances (ACI)

Azure Container Instances is a solution for any scenario that can operate in isolated containers, without orchestration. Run event-driven applications, quickly deploy from your container development pipelines, and run data processing and build jobs.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/container-instances-overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/container-instances-quickstart)

---

## Azure Container Registry (ACR)

Azure Container Registry is a managed, private Docker registry service based on the open-source Docker Registry 2.0.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/container-registry-intro)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/container-registry-get-started-azure-cli)

---

## Azure Database for MySQL

Azure Database for MySQL is a relational database service powered by the MySQL community edition.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/quickstart-create-mysql-server-database-using-azure-cli)

---

## Azure Databricks

Azure Databricks is a data analytics platform optimized for the Microsoft Azure cloud services platform. Azure Databricks offers two environments for developing data intensive applications: Azure Databricks SQL Analytics and Azure Databricks Workspace.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/scenarios/what-is-azure-databricks)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/)

[](.)

* [Azure Databricks SQL Analytics](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/scenarios/what-is-azure-databricks-sqla)
* [Azure Databricks Workspace](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/scenarios/what-is-azure-databricks-ws)

---

## Azure Front Door

Azure Front Door is a global, scalable entry-point that uses the Microsoft global edge network to create fast, secure, and widely scalable web applications.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/frontdoor/front-door-overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/frontdoor/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/frontdoor/quickstart-create-front-door-cli)

---

## Azure Functions

Azure Functions is a serverless compute service that lets you run event-triggered code without having to explicitly provision or manage infrastructure.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-first-azure-function-azure-cli)

---

## Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)

Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) makes it simple to deploy a managed Kubernetes cluster in Azure. AKS reduces the complexity and operational overhead of managing Kubernetes by offloading much of that responsibility to Azure.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/intro-kubernetes)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/kubernetes-walkthrough)
* [Kubernetes Dashboard](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/kubernetes-dashboard)

## Azure Dev Spaces

Azure Dev Spaces is an extension to AKS that allows you to easily run and debug your code in the context of a larger application. You can test your code end-to-end, hit breakpoints on code running in the cluster, and share a development cluster between team members without interference.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dev-spaces/about)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dev-spaces/)

---

## Azure Monitor

Azure Monitor maximizes the availability and performance of your applications and services by delivering a comprehensive solution for collecting, analyzing, and acting on telemetry from your cloud and on-premises environments.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/)

[](.)

* [Azure Monitor for Containers](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/insights/container-insights-overview)
* [Monitor Containerized App Services](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/architecture/containerized-lifecycle/run-manage-monitor-docker-environments/monitor-containerized-application-services)
* [Container Monitoring Solution](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/insights/containers)
* [Application Map](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-map)

---

## Azure Resource Graph

Azure Resource Graph is a service in Azure that is designed to extend Azure Resource Management by providing efficient and performant resource exploration with the ability to query at scale across a given set of subscriptions so that you can effectively govern your environment.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/resource-graph/overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/resource-graph/)
  * [Understanding the Query Language](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/resource-graph/concepts/query-language)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/resource-graph/first-query-azurecli)

    ```bash
    # Add Resource Graph extension
    $ az extension add --name resource-graph
    # Run help for graph query options
    $ az graph query --help
    # Run Azure Resource Graph query
    $ az graph query -q 'Resources | project name, type | order by name asc | limit 5'
    ```

---

## Azure Traffic Manager

Azure Traffic Manager is a DNS-based traffic load balancer that enables you to distribute traffic optimally to services across global Azure regions, while providing high availability and responsiveness.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/traffic-manager/traffic-manager-overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/traffic-manager/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/traffic-manager/quickstart-create-traffic-manager-profile-cli)

---

## Azure Virtual Machines

Azure Virtual Machines (VM) is one of several types of on-demand, scalable computing resources that Azure offers. Typically, you choose a VM when you need more control over the computing environment than the other choices offer.

* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/)
* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/overview)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/quick-create-cli)
* [Manage VMs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/tutorial-manage-vm)

---

Commit message:

:pencil2: Added Azure Synapse Analytics section to docs/links.md

docs/links.md, after:

# Learn Azure - Links & Resources

---

* [`awesome-azure`](https://github.com/kristofferandreasen/awesome-azure) A Curated List of Azure Resources.
* [`awesome-azure-learning`](https://github.com/ddneves/awesome-azure-learning)  Azure learning references especially for Azure architecture.

[](.)

* [Azure Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure)

---

## Azure Active Directory

Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) is a multi-tenant, cloud-based identity and access management service.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-whatis)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/)

### Azure Active Directory B2C

Azure Active Directory B2C (Azure AD B2C) is an identity management service that enables custom control of how your customers sign up, sign in, and manage their profiles when using your iOS, Android, .NET, single-page (SPA), and other applications.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/)
* [NodeJS Example](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-b2c-javascript-nodejs-webapi)

---

## Azure App Services

Azure App Service enables you to build and host web apps, mobile back ends, and RESTful APIs in the programming language of your choice without managing infrastructure.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/)
* [CLI Samples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/samples-cli)
* [NodeJS Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/quickstart-nodejs?pivots=platform-windows)

---

## Azure Automation

Azure Automation delivers a cloud-based automation and configuration service that supports consistent management across your Azure and non-Azure environments. It comprises process automation, configuration management, update management, shared capabilities, and heterogeneous features. Automation gives you complete control during deployment, operations, and decommissioning of workloads and resources.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/automation/automation-intro)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/automation/)
* [Start/Stop VMs During Off-Hours](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/automation/automation-solution-vm-management)

---

## Azure Blob Storage

Azure Blob storage is Microsoft's object storage solution for the cloud. Blob storage is optimized for storing massive amounts of unstructured data. Unstructured data is data that doesn't adhere to a particular data model or definition, such as text or binary data.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/)
* [CLI Samples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-samples-blobs-cli)

### Azure Data Lake Storage

‎Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 is a set of capabilities dedicated to big data analytics, built on [Azure Blob storage](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-introduction).

Data Lake Storage Gen2 converges the capabilities of [Azure Data Lake Storage Gen1](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-lake-store/) with Azure Blob storage. For example, Data Lake Storage Gen2 provides file system semantics, file-level security, and scale. Because these capabilities are built on Blob storage, you'll also get low-cost, tiered storage, with high availability/disaster recovery capabilities.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/data-lake-storage-introduction)

---

## Azure CDN

Azure Content Delivery Network (CDN) is a global CDN solution for delivering high-bandwidth content. It can be hosted in Azure or any other location. With Azure CDN, you can cache static objects loaded from Azure Blob storage, a web application, or any publicly accessible web server, by using the closest point of presence (POP) server. Azure CDN can also accelerate dynamic content, which cannot be cached, by leveraging various network and routing optimizations.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cdn/cdn-overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cdn/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cdn/scripts/cli/cdn-azure-cli-create-endpoint)

---

## Azure Container Instances (ACI)

Azure Container Instances is a solution for any scenario that can operate in isolated containers, without orchestration. Run event-driven applications, quickly deploy from your container development pipelines, and run data processing and build jobs.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/container-instances-overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/container-instances-quickstart)

---

## Azure Container Registry (ACR)

Azure Container Registry is a managed, private Docker registry service based on the open-source Docker Registry 2.0.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/container-registry-intro)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/container-registry-get-started-azure-cli)

---

## Azure Database for MySQL

Azure Database for MySQL is a relational database service powered by the MySQL community edition.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/quickstart-create-mysql-server-database-using-azure-cli)

---

## Azure Databricks

Azure Databricks is a data analytics platform optimized for the Microsoft Azure cloud services platform. Azure Databricks offers two environments for developing data intensive applications: Azure Databricks SQL Analytics and Azure Databricks Workspace.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/scenarios/what-is-azure-databricks)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/)

[](.)

* [Azure Databricks SQL Analytics](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/scenarios/what-is-azure-databricks-sqla)
* [Azure Databricks Workspace](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/scenarios/what-is-azure-databricks-ws)

---

## Azure Front Door

Azure Front Door is a global, scalable entry-point that uses the Microsoft global edge network to create fast, secure, and widely scalable web applications.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/frontdoor/front-door-overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/frontdoor/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/frontdoor/quickstart-create-front-door-cli)

---

## Azure Functions

Azure Functions is a serverless compute service that lets you run event-triggered code without having to explicitly provision or manage infrastructure.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-first-azure-function-azure-cli)

---

## Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)

Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) makes it simple to deploy a managed Kubernetes cluster in Azure. AKS reduces the complexity and operational overhead of managing Kubernetes by offloading much of that responsibility to Azure.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/intro-kubernetes)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/kubernetes-walkthrough)
* [Kubernetes Dashboard](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/kubernetes-dashboard)

## Azure Dev Spaces

Azure Dev Spaces is an extension to AKS that allows you to easily run and debug your code in the context of a larger application. You can test your code end-to-end, hit breakpoints on code running in the cluster, and share a development cluster between team members without interference.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dev-spaces/about)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dev-spaces/)

---

## Azure Monitor

Azure Monitor maximizes the availability and performance of your applications and services by delivering a comprehensive solution for collecting, analyzing, and acting on telemetry from your cloud and on-premises environments.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/)

[](.)

* [Azure Monitor for Containers](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/insights/container-insights-overview)
* [Monitor Containerized App Services](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/architecture/containerized-lifecycle/run-manage-monitor-docker-environments/monitor-containerized-application-services)
* [Container Monitoring Solution](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/insights/containers)
* [Application Map](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-map)

---

## Azure Resource Graph

Azure Resource Graph is a service in Azure that is designed to extend Azure Resource Management by providing efficient and performant resource exploration with the ability to query at scale across a given set of subscriptions so that you can effectively govern your environment.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/resource-graph/overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/resource-graph/)
  * [Understanding the Query Language](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/resource-graph/concepts/query-language)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/resource-graph/first-query-azurecli)

    ```bash
    # Add Resource Graph extension
    $ az extension add --name resource-graph
    # Run help for graph query options
    $ az graph query --help
    # Run Azure Resource Graph query
    $ az graph query -q 'Resources | project name, type | order by name asc | limit 5'
    ```

---

## Azure Synapse Analytics

Azure Synapse is an enterprise analytics service that accelerates time to insight across data warehouses and big data systems. Azure Synapse brings together the best of **SQL** technologies used in enterprise data warehousing, **Spark** technologies used for big data, **Pipelines** for data integration and ETL/ELT, and deep integration with other Azure services such as **Power BI**, **CosmosDB**, and **AzureML**.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/synapse-analytics/overview-what-is)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/synapse-analytics/)

---

## Azure Traffic Manager

Azure Traffic Manager is a DNS-based traffic load balancer that enables you to distribute traffic optimally to services across global Azure regions, while providing high availability and responsiveness.

* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/traffic-manager/traffic-manager-overview)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/traffic-manager/)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/traffic-manager/quickstart-create-traffic-manager-profile-cli)

---

## Azure Virtual Machines

Azure Virtual Machines (VM) is one of several types of on-demand, scalable computing resources that Azure offers. Typically, you choose a VM when you need more control over the computing environment than the other choices offer.

* [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/)
* [Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/overview)
* [CLI Quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/quick-create-cli)
* [Manage VMs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/tutorial-manage-vm)

---
